# reCaptcha, a plugin for Movable Type

* Authors: Six Apart
* Copyright: 2009-2013 Six Apart Ltd.
* License: MIT
* Site: <http://www.movabletype.org/>


## Overview

Captcha plugin powered by reCaptcha: <http://recaptcha.net/>.


## Requirements

* MT 4.x


## Features

* Provides captcha powered by reCaptcha.


## Documentation

<http://www.tildemark.com/adding-captcha-to-comments-in-movable-type-4/>

* Register for an account on reCaptcha and follow the links to "add a new
  site" to get the "reCaptcha public key" and "reCaptcha private key".
* Install the reCaptcha plugin.
* Go the Blog menu Tools > Plugins and open the settings for the reCaptcha
  plugin.
* Enter the keys into the respective public and private fields and click "Save
  Changes".
* Go to Blog menu Preferences > Comment.
* Select "reCaptcha" as the value for "CAPTCHA Provider" and click "Save
  Changes".
* Edit the template containing the commenting form. *In the default templates
  this is th "Comment Form" template.*

Look for one of the following blocks of code (from default templates in MT4.0x and MT4.1x):

    <mt:If tag="MTCaptchaFields">
    <mt:IfCommentsAccepted><mt:IfRegistrationAllowed><mt:Else><$mt:CaptchaFields$></mt:IfRegistrationAllowed></mt:IfCommentsAccepted>
    <div id="comments-open-captcha">
    </div>
    </mt:If>

...or this code  (from default templates in MT4.2x+):

    <div id="comments-open-captcha"></div>

Replace this with this code:

    <mt:If tag="MTCaptchaFields">
        <div id="comments-open-captcha"><$mt:CaptchaFields$></div>
    </mt:If>

> **Note:** The `mt:If` tag will remove the catcha if the "CAPTCHA Provider" setting is changed to "none" in Movable Type.

Open the Javascript index template and remove the following code or place it in a `mt:Ignore` block. (This code was in the default templates in MT4.0x and MT4.1x):


     <mt:If tag="MTCaptchaFields">
	   captcha_timer = setInterval('delayShowCaptcha()', 1000);
	   </mt:If>

...or remove/comment out mtShowCaptcha() call in mtCommentFormOnFocus function

    function mtCommentFormOnFocus() {
        // if CAPTCHA is enabled, this causes the captcha image to be
        // displayed if it hasn't been already.
        mtShowCaptcha(); <---- this
    }


* Rebuild index and individual entry archives.


## Installation

* Move the `reCaptcha` plugin directory to the MT `plugins` directory.

Should look like this when installed:

    $MT_HOME/
        plugins/
            reCaptcha/


## Troubleshooting

Add the following MT config directive to write validation requests and responses to the Activity log:

    ReCaptchaDebug 1


## Support

This plugin is not an official Six Apart release, and as such support for this
plugin is not available.
